now the Lord said to Joshua do not be
afraid nor be dismayed take all the
people of war with you and arise go up
to AI see I have given into your hand
the king of AI his people his City and
his land and you shall do - AI and its
King as you did to Jericho and its King
only its foil and it's careful you shall
take as booty for yourselves lay an
ambush for the city behind it so Joshua
arose and all the people of war to go up
against AI and Joshua chose thirty
thousand mighty men of valor and sent
them away by night and he commanded them
behold you shall lie in ambush against
the city behind the city do not go very
far from the city but all of you be
ready then I and all the people who are
with me will approach the city and it
will come about when they come out
against us as at the first that we shall
flee before them for they will come out
after us till we have drawn them from
the city for they will say they are
fleeing before us as at the first
therefore we will flee before them
then you shall rise from the ambush and
seize the city for the Lord your God
will deliver it into your hand and it
will be when you have taken the city
that you shall set the city on fire
according to the commandment of the Lord
you shall do see I have commanded you
Joshua therefore sent them out and they
went to lie in ambush
and stay between Bethel and AI on the
west side of AI but Joshua lodged that
night among the people when Joshua rose
up early in the morning and mustered the
people and went up he and the elders of
Israel before the people to AI and all
the people of war who were with him went
up and drew near and they came before
the city and camped on the north side of
AI now a valley lay between them and AI
so he took about five thousand men and
set them in ambush between Bethel and AI
on the west side of the city and when
they had set the people all the army
that was on the north of the city and
his rear guard on the west of the city
Joshua went that night into the midst of
the valley now it happened when the king
of AI saw it that the men of the city
hurried and rose early and went out
against Israel to battle he and all his
people at an appointed place before the
plane but he did not know that there was
an ambush against him behind the city
and Joshua and all Israel made as if
they were beaten before them and fled by
way of the wilderness so all the people
who were in AI were called together to
pursue them and they pursue Joshua and
were drawn away from the city there was
not a man left in AI or Bethel who did
not go out after Israel so they left the
city open and pursued Israel
then the Lord said to Joshua stretch out
the spear that is in your hand toward AI
for I will give it into your hand and
Joshua stretched out the spear that was
in his hand toward the city so those in
ambush arose quickly out of their place
they ran as soon as he had stretched out
his hand and they entered the city and
hood and hurried to set the city on fire
and when the men of air looked behind
them they saw and behold the smoke of
the city ascended to heaven so they had
no power to flee this way or that way
and the people who had fled to the
wilderness turned back on the pursuers
now when Joshua and all Israel saw that
the ambush had taken the city and that
the smoke of the city ascended they
turned back and struck down the men of
air then the others came out of the city
against them so they were caught in the
midst of Israel some on this side and
some on BET's and they struck them down
so that they left Naaman remained or
escaped
but the king of AI they took alive and
brought him to Josh and it came to pass
when Israel had made an end of slaying
all the inhabitants of AI in the field
in the wilderness where they pursued
them and when they all had fallen by the
edge of the sword until they were
consumed that all the Israelites
returned to AI and struck it with the
edge of the sword so it was that all who
fell that day both men and women were
twelve thousand all the people of AI for
Joshua did not draw back his hand with
which he stretched out the spear until
he had utterly destroyed all the
inhabitants of AI only the livestock and
the spoil of that city Israel took as
booty for themselves according to the
word of the Lord which he had commanded
Joshua so Joshua burned AI and made it a
heap forever a desolation to this day
and the king of AI
he hanged on a tree until evening and as
soon as the Sun was down Joshua
commanded that they should take his
corpse down from the tree cast it at the
entrance of the gate of the city and
raise over it a great heap of stones
that remains to this day now Joshua
built an altar to the Lord God of Israel
in Mount Ebal as Moses the servant of
the Lord had commanded the children of
Israel as it is written in the book of
the law of Moses and altar of hole
stones over which no man has wielded an
iron tool and they offered on it burnt
offerings to the Lord and sacrificed
peace offerings and there in the
presence of the children of Israel he
wrote on the stones a copy of the law of
Moses which he had written then all
Israel with their elders and officers
and judges stood on either side of the
ark before the priests the Levites
who bore the Ark of the Covenant of the
Lord the stranger as well as he who was
born among them half of them were in
front of Mount Gerizim and half of them
in front of Mount Ebal
as Moses the servant of the Lord had
commanded before that they should bless
the people of Israel and afterward he
read all the words of the law the
blessings and the cursings according to
all that is written in the book of the
law there was not a word of all that
Moses had commanded which joshua did not
read before all the Assembly of Israel
with women the little ones and the
strangers who were living among them
[Music]